[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
We are broadcasting from
The Conscious Life Expo
here in Los Angeles.
And with healthcare
systems in the flux
right now, which is definitely
what we're experiencing,
my guest today,
Dr. Mark Mincolla,
is a natural healthcare
practitioner.
And he can offer a lot of
solutions for this flux
that we're in.
We need to learn more
about preventive medicine.
We need to learn more about
self care and self-healing.
And Dr. Mark Mincolla,
who has been featured
on "Dr. Oz" and
many other programs,
has combined the ancient
Chinese medicine art
with cutting edge nutritional
science and energy
work, which we just
did a little bit of.
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>MARK MINCOLLA:
Thanks for having me.
That felt great, didn't it?
>>LISA: It felt so good.
I feel so energized
and so alive.
So tell me a little bit
about our healthcare system
that we're noticing these days.
What is the message that we're
receiving about healthcare?
>>MINCOLLA: Well, for starters,
the idea of preventive medicine
is pretty much forgotten.
When you consider
only 1% of the budget
is allocated for
prevention-- and you're
talking about breast
exams, colonoscopies--
we're not really empowering
people and teaching
them to eat, how to
exercise and meditate,
do their Tai Chi, et cetera.
It needs to be a
little bit different.
>>LISA: Well,
there's no funds that
are allocated in any type of
healthcare plan for, I mean,
chiropractic-- a little amount.
There's nothing in
there for naturopathic.
I mean, there's really
not any permission
for us to get any
of this covered.
>>MINCOLLA: I'm not sure
there's a huge revenue
stream for prevention.
>>LISA: Uh-uh.
No.
No there isn't.
>>MINCOLLA: Not to sound
cynical about it, but--
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: --it plays a role.
>>LISA: So that's why we need
to take care of ourselves.
>>MINCOLLA: We need to empower
ourselves, take responsibility,
and enjoy the process.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS]
>>MINCOLLA: It's a lot of fun
feeling great, believe me.
>>LISA: Enjoy the
process, darn it.
So, all right.
So let's talk about what you do.
What is a whole health system?
>>MINCOLLA: Well first
of all, we really
focus on the idea,
Lisa, that food really
is medicine-- we're not using
that as a euphemism-- the idea
that food actually has
energy, we have energy,
and there's mixing and
matching that takes place.
I always bring up the point
that folks in this culture
think about food from a
purely biological perspective,
from a chemical perspective.
Food is so much
more than chemistry.
Food is energy.
It's like we did
our little Tai Chi
exercise before we got started.
Energy is the whole key here.
We produce energy that's
really powerful stuff.
When we're animated
with a lot of energy,
our health is betterr, our
immune system functions better.
The food plays a role.
The attitude, the
mood, and the way
we operate our lives
at a mental level
and a spiritual and
emotional level all
play a significant role.
>>LISA: Well, that's one thing
that I'd love to learn from you
is how do you combine
these two techniques,
the ancient Chinese
medicine with
the traditional cutting-edge
types of therapies?
How did you get your
experience in this?
>>MINCOLLA: Well,
for 32 years, I've
seen 60,000 appointments from
people from all over the world.
Don't ask me how
that ever happened.
I never imagined it in my
wildest dreams 32 years ago.
But it happened.
So I think it starts
off with compassion,
heartfelt compassion, concern at
a conscious level for the well
being of my fellow man.
And when I go to work,
it's a heartfelt experience
that I still bring to
my work, thank God.
And it's never
been any different,
but I think the inspiration is
drawn from that perspective,
and just paying close attention,
being super aware, conscious,
paying close attention
to the responses
that you receive from patients.
What works, what
doesn't work, what
excites people,
what turns them on,
what turns their
level of wellness up,
all have a really important
influence in teaching me
where I've ended up.
>>LISA: What's the biggest
complaint that people have
when they come to you?
What's the biggest ailment
people have these days?
>>MINCOLLA: Well
keep this in mind--
I see a lot of
terminally ill folks,
a lot of folks with
neurodegenerative diseases,
very serious stuff.
But to answer your
question, energy, fatigue,
memory, those are
key areas I think.
>>LISA: Why?
Why do you think?
>>MINCOLLA: Where did
I put my car keys?
I mean, I hear things
like that all the time.
And people are really disturbed
and really upset about the fact
that they seem to not
have complete control
over their faculties.
They're stressed out.
Their minds are doing so much.
They're multitasking all day
long, way above their capacity
to manage their
lives efficiently.
So I think there's
a lot of stress that
plays a significant role there.
>>LISA: So stress is causing
the fatigue and the memory loss
and so forth?
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah,
well, the operation
of our nervous system,
the way our brain
functions-- our brain, of
course, functions much better
when the nervous
system is at peace.
Not a whole lot of people
at peace these days.
And a lot of nervous systems are
ravaging the brain responses.
And people are not able to
kind of grasp a lot of things
that otherwise they
would be able to.
They're busy getting
the kids to school,
and they're surviving
economically in many respects.
And it's a tough life right now.
>>LISA: OK.
So you just described my life.
>>MINCOLLA: [LAUGHS]
>>LISA: Maybe I could be a
patient for a minute here
and ask you-- I'm tired, I'm
fatigued, I'm stressed out.
And what would
you tell me to do?
>>MINCOLLA: First of all,
there are four brain wave
states that we produce.
One of them is called beta.
Beta brain waves
are what I refer
to as a highway state of mind.
You're racing around.
You're late for work,
You're stressed out.
You're looking at your watch.
That's a beta brain wave state.
We don't want--
>>LISA: Don't forget traffic.
Yeah.
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah, we
don't want to be there.
We do not want to be there.
There are deeper
states, of course,
like alpha, which is more
of a meditative state, delta
and theta, which are very, very
deep, deep relaxation states.
We're told that if we hit delta
states just for 20 seconds
a day-- 20 seconds-- we actually
reset our nervous system.
>>LISA: Really?
>>MINCOLLA: So it doesn't
take a whole lot of time
to actually hit that
really deep, deep level
and get some benefit out of it.
>>LISA: That's inspiring.
>>MINCOLLA: But
nobody's unplugging .
Everybody's just plugged
in and going and going
and going and going.
>>LISA: Now let's
take 20 seconds here.
So what does that look like?
Tell me what--
>>MINCOLLA: We sort of did it
before our interview today.
>>LISA: That's
what it looks like.
>>MINCOLLA: It's a
matter of, yes, it's
as simple as just doing nothing,
just unplugging your brain.
Sure, meditation's great.
Yoga's great.
Tai Chi is great, et cetera.
>>LISA: So turn off the radio.
Can you do it while
you're in the car?
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely.
I would encourage anybody
to do it anyway they can.
But the idea is just to
simply do absolutely zilch.
Nothing.
Unplug, shut it down, and
let your brand recycle
and your nervous
system recycle as well.
>>LISA: Is there anything
that you can focus on to quiet
the monkey mind in that moment?
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah.
I mean there's been some
remarkable research.
Dr. Richard Davidson at
the University of Wisconsin
has done some great
neuroplasticity research
where they've determined that
the average person thinks
between one and 3,000
thoughts a minute.
And it's all
unconscious thought.
So when we think these kind of
constant streams of unconscious
thought, not all of
them are positive.
In many cases they're very
negative, and typically so.
So this negative
stream of consciousness
is not helping us to
relax or feel more at ease
or more efficient at a
brain level, like we said.
So the idea of just
taking 20 seconds
and shutting that stream of
negative consciousness down
helps us to reset and helps us
to kind of get back in place.
But his research
at Wisconsin was
that we can actually
take four minutes twice
a day and utter a
positive mantra.
Now a mantra is often
referred to as words of power.
Like ohm is a very
powerful common mantra,
for example, that speaks
to the notion of a god
energy in our lives.
But also, people can just
speak positive words.
>>LISA: Gratitude and--
>>MINCOLLA: Gratitude.
And sentences as
well-- I'm a genius was
was of the more powerful
neurologically engaging phrases
that they studied.
>>LISA: Nice.
>>MINCOLLA: So I'm a genius.
I am the master of the universe.
Again, we don't have
to be accurate here.
What we have to do
is we have to have
a dynamism and a positive
reflex in our wording.
So when our words are dynamic
and positive for four minutes
twice a day over 16 weeks, we
reset from right prefrontal
to left prefrontal
consciousness.
So the idea that we are right
prefrontal dominant means we're
worried, we're stressed, we're
late for getting the kids
to school.
We don't have that shutdown
that we're talking about.
So the stress levels
are really preeminently
in that right prefrontal cortex.
The way we shift
for that dominance
to move over to the other
side, that confident,
peaceful, well-balanced,
managed part of our brain,
is really shifted when we engage
in these four-minute spells
twice a day of positive,
dynamic phrases.
>>LISA: Can you do
that within-- I mean,
there are times where I am
in the car with the daughter,
late to school, and
I am stressed out.
And that sets her day up
for being stressed out
and then it messes
up the entire day.
>>MINCOLLA: It is contagious.
>>LISA: Yes.
So--
>>MINCOLLA: It's like we could
be in a room of 25 people.
You could be on the
other side of the room,
but if you're real
stressed out, you're
going to hit somebody's energy
on the other side of the room.
That's how energy is.
>>LISA: So how do you break
the cycle in the moment?
>>MINCOLLA: I
think you just have
to be conscious, for starters.
I mean, what we're really
talking about here whenever
we talk about holistic
health in any capacity,
whether it's diet or
the mental framework
or whatever, it's all
about consciousness.
It really is.
Mindful living is the
beginning of the process.
We often say there are
seven different states
of consciousness.
We start off without
the awareness
of some of these things
and not an inclination
to think at a higher
level of awareness.
But we can develop
that awareness.
And we can kind of
build on that awareness
and develop it at a
much stronger level
to be more inclined
to say, hey, I've
got to stop myself midstream.
What am I doing here?
I'm going off at the
hip here, and I'm
kind of getting very
neurologically overcharged
and stressed.
And I need to kind of just
rein it all in right now
and just shut it down.
And that's why I say 20-second
periods, 20-second intervals
of unplugging and
thinking about nothing,
no matter where you are
or what you're doing.
>>LISA: OK.
So let's talk about
the human energy field
because it's going to lead us
into some of the techniques
that you're going to teach us.
What is energy?
How much energy do you we
radiate from our bodies,
from ourselves?
>>MINCOLLA: It's been
measured at 0.025 volts
at 10 Hertz of direct
current ambient charge.
So we're producing
a specific field.
But of course, science
knows about it.
We do electroencephalograms,
electrocardiograms, we do MRIs.
We know it's there.
So the reality is science
has acknowledged it.
They just don't
spend a whole lot
of time teaching us about it
and expanding on the properties
and expanding on the
possible applications
like we're talking
about here today.
>>LISA: I wonder why.
>>MINCOLLA: We produce
an active field, though.
>>LISA: I mean, I can
feel someone's energy when
they walks into the room, or
an energy of a room changing.
But why isn't it more validated
in the scientific communities?
>>MINCOLLA: We're
dealing with phenomena.
And phenomena can't
really be addressed
from a biochemistry perspective.
So chemistry is more
materially based, obviously.
And energy-based
medicine is more
inclined to think in
terms of phenomena
as having to be understood
at a whole different level.
You kind of mentioned
it a minute ago.
You said you can feel when
somebody walks in the room.
Here comes Elvis.
>>LISA: Someone
walked in the room.
>>MINCOLLA: Somebody with
dynamism comes into that room,
you're going to feel it.
There's a certain
palpable level of energy.
That's exactly what
it's about, I think.
You're not going to use
meters or scientific data
to kind of pick
up on that energy.
But you can surely feel it.
Its presences is undeniable.
>>LISA: So you said that we have
a certain field, a Hertz that's
measurable that can emanate
from our physical body.
It's just like a radio signal--
>>MINCOLLA: That's
exactly right.
>>LISA: --gets from a tower to
a station and then to the radio.
That comes from our bodies.
How do we use this energy field
that we have to clear disease
and to raise health?
>>MINCOLLA: Well that's
exactly the point
is that we do have this
remarkable thing called energy.
And we have an infinite
supply of this energy, OK?
There's no limitation
to this stuff.
It's pouring into us.
We're part of this field
system, this multiversal field
system of unlimited,
infinite energy.
So it's what we
consciously tune into
and what we intentionally apply.
Most folks are not intentionally
or consciously tuned into it
because, as you pointed out,
the cultures isn't really
talking that talk.
But there are many of us now
that have been working at that
and starting to kind of
test it and work with it
and experiment on
our own with it.
And we're not doing
brain surgery here.
You can work with somebody
at home that you love
and just say, look,
let's play with energy.
>>LISA: Let's try.
Mhm.
>>MINCOLLA: And one of
the simple applications--
we think about it again.
Everything has energy.
Food has energy.
You have energy.
So when there's an energy
interaction, like at a party,
you meet some people, they
either you lift you up
or they take you down.
Food is the same way.
All energy is either a positive
or a negative reaction.
I always say energy has three
possibilities: too much, not
enough, and perfect,
right in the middle.
So if you're properly
aligned with somebody,
you're going to
feel a nice balance
to hook up energetically.
Or with the food, you feel
great after you eat it,
or you don't feel
good after you eat it.
So sometimes foods will
lift you up too high
and make you kind of
nervous and anxious.
Other foods will
kind of take you down
and drain you and deplete
you and depress you.
So it's a matter of saying
that energy has these three
applications: excess,
deficiency, and balance.
So we can actually
work with these foods
by holding a food
close to our body.
We're actually having
an energy interaction.
We can measure through
muscle testing.
So we produce this
magnetic field
that actually fills our muscles
with neuromuscular response.
Arm goes up about
shoulders height.
Make a fist.
Keep the elbows straight.
Hold the food
close to the heart.
Have a loved one
just tug on the arm.
Just gently tug at the wrist.
And if the wrist is weak and
brings about a weak response,
that's a food that energetically
is not well matched.
>>LISA: For you.
>>MINCOLLA: For you.
So you could take a loved
one to the grocery store
and do this stuff
and have a blast.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Teach other people how to do it.
>>MINCOLLA: I want to see the
entire world at the produce
section muscle testing.
>>LISA: With muscles.
That would be great.
>>MINCOLLA: I'm not going
to rest until that happens.
[BOTH LAUGH]
>>LISA: I'll help you.
All right.
So let's do a few of
these energy techniques.
We opened the show
with doing something
that was turning
your hands backwards.
What was that technique?
>>MINCOLLA: That's an ancient
Daoist technique from China
that actually is
referred to as weaving
the web of universal protection.
In front of our bodies,
in front of our hearts,
there's what they referred
to as a pericardium
field, this field of energy
that you can't see visually.
But it exists right
in front of you.
And it's just sort of
your protection zone,
if you will, from ill
thoughts, ill intentions.
People around you,
they may want to kind
of stay centered
in the presence of.
And this is your
protection field.
Your pericardium is your
field of protection.
So you want that plenty strong.
It's said that it should
be 36 inches in depth
for your full protection.
So sometimes you get stressed
out, you get deficient.
You're not eating right.
You're not sleeping right.
Your pericardium field
becomes deficient.
So when we do this little
exercise that we showed you--
36 spins, left hand under right.
And you spin your left
hand over your right.
Your other left hand.
No, I'm just kidding.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS] Left
hand under right.
>>MINCOLLA: Left toward you.
Left-- no, no.
Left under right.
Now bring your left
hand toward your body.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>MINCOLLA: There you go.
>>MINCOLLA: So now
you're doing this.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS]
>>MINCOLLA: Perfect.
And as you spin that, you're
actually enhancing or weaving
the pericardium field, which
is your field of protection.
So it's a great
stress technique.
>>LISA: This is great.
OK.
So it increases
your energy field.
This is great for conferences
like we're at right now
where there's people everywhere.
>>MINCOLLA: Exactly right.
Well, it increases the
field that is actually
designed to protect you
from the world around you,
from tension, from stress.
Because we're constantly
interacting with other people.
And as we said a
little while ago,
you could be at the
other side of the room
and pick up somebody's
something or other.
We're always picking
up something or other.
We have a high
receptivity response.
>>LISA: You can even pick
it up through the phone.
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely right.
So this is protecting you from
the negative possibilities.
>>LISA: OK.
And this happens 36 times.
>>MINCOLLA: 36 spins.
>>LISA: OK.
Now, something
else you were doing
is opening the gates of heaven.
>>MINCOLLA: Opening and
closing the heavenly gates.
>>LISA: Was is that from?
>>MINCOLLA: Which
is, again, it's
another Chinese
exercise that says
we're taking in good energy.
And we breathe in through the
nose, exhale through the mouth.
Again, you're letting the good
in and the not so good out.
And again, there's energy that's
balanced that you're taking in,
energy that's imbalanced
that you're releasing,
leaving you in a position at
the end of this little exercise,
you feel refreshed and
balanced out energetically.
>>LISA: I encourage
you to try it at home.
>>MINCOLLA: And they work.
>>LISA: Yes.
And to play with it.
Now I wanted you to tell us
a little bit about anxiety
and techniques that
you can do for anxiety.
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah.
One of the things we did
on "Dr. Oz," we kind of
had fun with these
pressure points.
There are three different
pressure points that I used.
They're referred to
as pericardium points.
We talked about the pericardium,
that hard protection
in front of you from the
world from stress, et cetera.
So there are three
important points.
One is on the upper
part of the wrist,
right about where I'm
pointing right here.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: OK.
And that's pericardium 7.
Pericardium 7 is actually
a terrific insomnia point.
So folks who are not sleeping
well, their thoughts are
buzzing and their busy
mind is keeping them awake
from any kind of normal sleep.
They think, what can I do?
What can I do right here in the
middle of a frustrating sleep
period?
Put pressure with your
thumb right in that point.
Leave that-- a
little bit higher.
No, no, the other way.
Right there.
So you put pressure on
that pericardium 7 point.
You're stimulating
an acupuncture point
that actually helps
you to relax and get
a better quality of sleep.
That's PC 7.
That's an insomnia point.
>>LISA: Don't want to
fall asleep right now.
So I'm not going to
do that. [LAUGHS]
>>MINCOLLA: And
there's one right
in the middle of the hand.
There's one right in
the middle of a hand.
It's pericardium 8.
That's a really
important stress point.
That's a general stress
point, so anybody who's
feeling any kind of
stress and saying,
I'm in the middle of my day.
My day is overwhelming me.
I'm kind of like dealing with
traffic and the whole nine
yards.
Bang.
Put some pressure right in
the middle of that hand.
>>LISA: What about stress in
the body, like a back pain
and so forth?
Are there places in
the body that can--?
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah.
There are, depending
on who you ask,
over 1,000 points in the body.
It's depending on what points
you want to work with, too.
But, yeah, there are definitely
physical stress points as well.
There's a great physical
stress point right
at conception vessel 17, right
about where I'm pointing here.
Right in the chest.
Put pressure on
that point and you
actually will help
your body to neutralize
the presence of general
pain in the body,
whether it's emotional,
mental, or physical pain
as well, by the way.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
And if it's sore, if
that's sore in your body--
>>MINCOLLA: That's a good
point, because if there's
soreness or if you get tickly
or any of that kind of stuff,
there's sensitivity in
that pressure point, that
means you really need
to work that point.
Work it and put pressure
in there, acupressure,
until it doesn't
tickle or hurt anymore.
>>LISA: When you say working
it, do you tap on it?
Do you massage?
Do you turn it in
a certain circle?
>>MINCOLLA: I just recommend
putting pulse pressure.
You Pulse in on it
and then release.
Pulse in then release.
>>LISA: OK.
And that starts to
move the meridian?
>>MINCOLLA: That's
exactly right.
It activates the movement
of chi, or life force,
in that area.
See, these meridian pathways
are like neurological highways
in the body.
And you just put
pressure on these points
to re-stimulate those points
that get blocked or broken
down.
Traffic will kind of
break down in these areas.
>>LISA: OK.
So you created something called
electromagnetic muscle testing.
And what is that?
>>MINCOLLA: What I
did, first of all,
is I took a lot of the
Chinese approach, which
we've been kind of
discussing here.
And I wanted to occidentalize,
contemporarize, westernize
and simplify them for
the Western mind in ways
that we could start having
fun with these things.
Because right now there's
this East and West thing
is kind of two totally
different places.
So there's a lot of
excitement that I
have around the idea
of kind of bridging
the gap between these two.
And in order to
do that, I figure
we had to simplify these
things and to kind of make them
more user friendly for
the average American.
So the muscle testing
system that I have
is actually a very
simple approach
to tapping into
your energy field
doing some fun
work with muscles.
So again, like we talked about
with the food a minute ago,
you can hold food close
and check the resistance.
You go to the grocery
store with a loved one,
hold an apple or a pear, a peach
or a plum close to the body,
check the resistance.
But here's the other part of it.
You can actually
just utter words.
In other words, we can
either hold the food
like we talked about,
the apple et cetera,
or we can actually
call out the word apple
and check the same resistance.
We can do it with
you in a minute.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
>>MINCOLLA: But again,
the mind and the body
produce a unified
field of consciousness,
a unified field of awareness.
It's what we call
innate awareness.
It's part of our
natural defense system.
If you're sleeping in
the middle of the night,
you're having a dream
that you're actually
falling off a cliff.
Your heart rate goes
up, you perspire,
your physiology is adjusted.
It changes.
It's responding to
something that's a dream.
It's not even real.
Yet your physiological
responses are engaged.
I always tell people we have
this incredibly powerful
defense system that has
to, when it's called upon,
give an opinion.
It has to respond.
It can't take
anything for granted.
So whether it's real
or not is irrelevant.
It's what it's
picturing, it's what
it's influenced by
in terms of stimuli.
So whatever stimulate
you hit it with-- I
could have you close your
eyes and think about 9/11.
Your resistance is going
to get very weak of course.
When you think about somebody
you love very dearly,
your resistance is going
to get really strong.
So resistance is always
shifting and changing
at the bioenergetic level.
But we're not listening.
We're not dialoguing with it.
Part of this whole issue to
me is the conscious awareness
that it exists, just being
attuned to its reality.
And then secondly, to have
fun playing around with it
and just experimenting.
I actually think that's
a fantastic idea.
You can use this application
for anything from weight loss
to increasing energy to shifting
your mood and your focus.
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely.
>>LISA: So let's talk
about a few of those.
So say, for example,
someone desperately
needs to lose weight
for health reasons,
and they have a very hard time
with the willpower around food.
Know what to eat,
read all the diets
and can't physically
break the patterns.
Can you start to converse
with yourself and the food?
How would you suggest that?
>>MINCOLLA: It's
a great question.
I think we have two different
forms of intelligence.
We have learned intelligence.
We go to school, we
have coaches, et cetera.
So we learn from an intellectual
approach to learning.
We also learn from innate.
So innate is something that we
engage from within ourselves,
sort of a stream of
natural consciousness.
You're crossing a
busy city street.
You make an innate decision.
Do I run?
Am I safe right now?
Now's the time to go.
Bang.
You're across the street.
Or I'm going to hold back
because it doesn't feel right.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MINCOLLA: So we're
using innate all the time.
Whenever we shop
as consumers, do I
look better in
green, red, or blue?
I want to buy the blue shirt
because I look better in blue
with my eyes.
So we're always making
these decisions innately.
So we do have two different
sources or streams
of information
that we work with.
So I say that you have this
natural stream of awareness
that says, look, if I check you
out for apples, peaches, pears,
or plums, and I muscle test
you by calling the words out,
you have to have an opinion.
That's part of how
your neurology works.
So it's a
neuromuscular response,
meaning that your nerves
within your muscles
charge them up or
charge them down.
You either have a
positive effect--
like if I mention
9/11, negative effect.
If I mention somebody
you love, positive
effect-- same thing with foods.
So it can be
anything arbitrarily
that you have to
have an opinion for.
Again, your nervous
biofeedback system,
your neurological
has to have an opinion about
everything to keep you alive.
It's part of our defense system.
>>LISA: So back
to the weight loss
question, can you, rather
than checking with the foods,
can you check in with your body?
Do you have to have a clear
relationship with your health
and the way you want to
look in order for what
you're talking about to work?
>>MINCOLLA: No.
This works 24/7/365.
It's always engaged.
From the day you're born to
the day you leave the planet,
it's engaged.
Our innate awareness is part
of the human defense system.
It's a biofeedback
defense system
that has-- like we said, even if
you're dreaming about something
completely artificial,
you still have
to have that reaction,
that response.
It doesn't take any chances.
It leaves nothing to chance.
It's always active as
our protective device
neuromuscularly so.
The idea is that when
we're looking at diet,
I would call out, for
example, at breakfast,
one ounce of protein,
two ounces of protein,
three ounces of protein, four.
At whatever level
of protein you fail,
the arm's going to go down.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: Because
you have an opinion
neurologically about everything.
So I actually contour
diets, customize diets,
with the accordance
of direct corollaries
to the right food for you.
In other words, we start off
by testing you for apples.
Oop.
Apples failed.
That's not on your
diet because that's not
an efficient food for you.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>MINCOLLA: So we're
only going to start off
with a list of foods that
are mapped in as those most
efficient energetically,
acceptable foods for your body
chemistry.
Secondly, we then detail
a complete dietary system.
Breakfast-- do you want protein?
Well, yes, you do.
How many ounces of protein?
One, two, three, four,
or whatever ounces
it might muscle out to.
So we muscle test you
for the entire details
of breakfast, lunch, and
dinner, proteins, carbs, fats,
ounces of water, et
cetera, et cetera.
>>LISA: Food allergies?
>>MINCOLLA: There's
no restriction.
You can just type
out the whole thing.
>>LISA: Can you test
somebody for food allergies
in terms of a diet also?
So can you test me for allergies
to different types of foods
right now?
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Can we show
how this works?
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely.
Let's do it.
>>LISA: Can you do
it from right there?
I have to muscle
test you, though.
>>LISA: OK That's OK.
Can I do it sitting down?
>>MINCOLLA: Sure you can.
>>LISA: OK, great.
>>MINCOLLA: Let's
have you raise up.
Let's make a fist--
a little bit higher.
>>LISA: Sorry.
>>MINCOLLA: A little bit high.
I'm going to tug at the wrist.
So if I said, Lisa, you
think about something
like apples, peaches, pears.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>MINCOLLA: Raise up again.
Apples, peaches, pears.
So pears wouldn't be the best
of that particular group.
>>LISA: Uh-uh.
Uh-uh.
>>MINCOLLA: If I said something
like grains-- oats, rice,
wheat.
>>LISA: Deathly allergic to it.
>>MINCOLLA: Wheat.
So in other words--
>>LISA: Deathly.
>>MINCOLLA: Watch
what else we can do.
We can actually appeal
to the mind body
in a dialoguing sense,
your mind body awareness,
your field of awareness.
So I can say, what about,
how negative 1 to 10,
is wheat for you specifically?
How negative is it?
Let's get a detail here.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: Because you're
capable of doing that.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: So wheat is a minus
1 out of 10, minus 2 out of 10,
minus 3, minus 4, minus 5, minus
6, minus 7, minus 8, minus 9,
minus 10.
So you went the full distance.
>>LISA: Ah, yeah.
>>MINCOLLA: How bad is wheat?
It's a minus 10.
So we can actually reverse
that polarity of intention.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Can you ask my body about meats?
>>MINCOLLA: Sure.
>>LISA: Different
types of meats.
>>MINCOLLA: Absolutely.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: So let's start off
with poultry, like chicken.
Let's go to turkey.
How about, like,
white fish, like cod
fish or haddock or
something like that?
How about if we did something
like a red meat, like beef?
>>LISA: Right.
>>MINCOLLA: Didn't
do very well there.
>>LISA: Uh-uh.
No.
>>MINCOLLA: So let's
do the same thing here.
>>LISA: I've never eaten it.
Since a baby, I've
never eaten it.
>>MINCOLLA: How negative,
1 to 10, is beef for you
specifically?
Beef-- minus 1, minus 2, beef
is minus 3, minus 4, minus 5,
minus 6.
About a minus 6.
>>LISA: Wow.
So again, all we're
doing is we're
dialoguing with your mind
body at an energetic level
to tap into what your
energetic opinions are
at the neurological level.
>>LISA: Brilliant.
OK, let's talk about illness.
If I'm suffering with
a cold, and you think
you're going to die.
And you've all the symptoms
for the common cold, lots
of flus going around
the flu season,
can you dialogue with the
energetic system of the body
to wellness in that moment, when
there's a virus or bacteria?
>>MINCOLLA: You absolutely
can do that to the degree
that you would be amazed at.
In other words, we can
tap into-- I'd first
of all say the word "virus."
Arm goes down, you've got one.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MINCOLLA: OK?
In other words,
how does your body
respond to the
notion of a virus?
If you're immunologically
defended well and strong
and have no virus
in your system,
your arm's going to
stay nice and tight.
If I call out, "virus,"
and you have a virus,
your arm goes down.
Then I would ask you at what
level does this virus exist?
Minus 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7-- whatever
level it is kind of
defines at a greater detail
just how negative, how
virulent, how powerful,
how hard this virus is
hitting you specifically
at this point in time.
So we can get a minus--
obviously a minus 10 virus
is pretty nasty.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MINCOLLA: All right.
A minus 1, not so bad.
We can also, then, tap into a
variety of different medicines.
What I do my work every
day is say, OK, I'm
going to call out five or six
different anti-viral medicines,
over-the-counter, natural
antiviral medicines
to see how you respond to them.
And then test those
positive 1 to 10.
So I might look at
something like lauric acid
from coconut, which
is an anti-viral.
Monolaurin is a terrific
antiviral medicine.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MINCOLLA: So I'd
call out monolaurin.
You get a positive
response for monolaurin
for your given virus.
I want to know how
positive it is.
Is it minus-- is it
plus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5?
So I look for a plus 10
for a natural medicine
for any bacteria, virus,
mold, anything like that.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Can somebody hand
me a cell phone?
Because I wanted to check that
on the body, just to see what
the reaction of cell
phones would be.
>>MINCOLLA: Electromagnetics.
>>LISA: Right, right, right.
Wait.
Hold on.
Put it right here.
OK.
Hold onto the--
>>MINCOLLA: I'm going to
have you put your hand on top
of that phone, your other hand.
Yes.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: It's just while
you're holding that phone.
>>LISA: Not good.
>>MINCOLLA: Pretty easy, right?
>>LISA: OK.
Put the phone down.
>>MINCOLLA: I'm going to
have you do one other thing.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MINCOLLA: I'm
going to have you
look at that light over there.
Just look at the light.
Raise up.
As you're looking at that light.
You know why?
That's not full spectrum
lighting, is it?
>>LISA: Probably not.
>>MINCOLLA: The sun is
full-spectrum light,
and that light is
an artificial light.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Now test it without
the cell phone.
>>MINCOLLA: Now let's do this.
What was the magnetic
difference, 1 to 10?
The difference between on
the phone and off the phone?
Plus 1, plus 2, plus 3, plus 4,
plus 5, plus 6, plus 7, plus 8,
plus 9.
Slam dunk.
>>LISA: Ah, bummer. [LAUGHS]
I'm on my phone all the time.
>>MINCOLLA: But not
surprised, right?
>>LISA: Well, it's one of those
things I'm in denial about.
>>MINCOLLA: We all are.
>>LISA: Most of us are.
[BOTH LAUGH]
Exactly.
All right.
So you said that
you treat people
who are in situations
where they're being treated
with chemo and various
illnesses, terminal illnesses.
>>MINCOLLA: Yes.
>>LISA: What and how do you
help them through that process?
So can you help someone
through the process of chemo?
>>MINCOLLA: Well, again, I
have a system in whole health.
The whole health
system is basically
designed to help a
practitioner, or even
a reader to work
with somebody they
love, to tap into the levels
of strength and weaknesses
in the body, so their organ
systems, first of all.
We don't treat the disease.
We treat the
fortress, the patient.
Again, it's a matter of
what I always like to say,
you don't want to
treat the smoke,
you want to treat the fire.
>>LISA: OK, so the
human treatment.
>>MINCOLLA: So we have
a fortress in here
that's capable of doing some
remarkably miraculous work,
provided it's up to snuff.
When people don't eat
properly over a period
of many, many years, stressed
out like we talked about,
don't get their sleep,
don't get their rest,
compromise in diet, nutrition,
body, mind, and spirit,
we want to test their body
field, their organ field:
liver, kidneys,
gallbladder, lungs, spleen.
Where are the weaknesses?
How weak are they,
minus 1 to minus 10?
So we go through a
diagnostic breakdown
of all the different
areas in the body that
are potentially weak.
And after we find that
the spleen or whatever,
the kidneys, or whatever
it might be is sensitive,
how sensitive is it,
minus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6?
The minus 10 weaknesses
are the areas
you want to focus on
bolstering and strengthening.
So not to focus on the disease,
to focus on those areas that
are most sensitive that
allowed the disease
to crawl inside the fort.
>>LISA: Interesting.
OK, so then you can focus
on the areas that are--
>>MINCOLLA: Strengthen
the root reference.
We refer to it as
a root reference.
Disease, as it's being
diagnosed nowadays,
tends not to look at
the root referencing.
It doesn't look at
the causal roots.
It just says, let's just
deal with the disease.
I have a radio show
back in Boston.
People are always
ask me, what do
I take for migraine headaches?
What do I take for this one?
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>MINCOLLA: I say, don't
think of it in those terms.
We need to find out where
your weaknesses are,
and we need to strengthen them.
Everybody's different.
Every disease is different.
Every virus is different.
>>LISA: Migraines
are-- I'm glad you
brought that up-- debilitating.
And there's not a lot
of solutions for those.
What would you tell
someone who has?
>>MINCOLLA: Once again, once
again, why is it happening?
Where is the root reference?
If you have gallbladder
sensitivities,
that's a classic,
classic marker.
90% of all migraine
headaches are
rooted by gallbladder
sensitivities, gallbladder
weaknesses or bile
duct sensitivities.
People that don't manage
fats and lipids in their diet
particularly efficiently.
So if there's a weakness in
the bile duct or gallbladder,
your fat metabolism
isn't very efficient.
And you're going to
often have very sensitive
migraine responses.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So how would you correct
something like that?
>>MINCOLLA: Strengthen
the gallbladder.
>>LISA: By?
>>MINCOLLA: With things like--
I would test them obviously,
like we talked about.
But typically you'd find things
like barberry root, which
is a tremendous bile stimulator,
tremendous gallbladder
medicine.
Also things like homeopathic
medicines, like nat phos,
nat sulph, lycopodium, really
important natural medicines
that actually help the
gallbladder and help one
get rid of migraine
headaches through
that weakened gallbladder
by strengthening it.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Do you recommend
chiropractic, body adjustments
whatsoever or no?
You think you could
do that through--?
>>MINCOLLA: No.
No, I mean, I think that
the idea of global wholism
is a brilliant idea.
I think the idea of
having a group of folks
that you work with as part
of your health care team
is always a great
situation that I
would encourage
people to engage.
>>LISA: Yes.
Absolutely.
So you think that you
can pretty much self
correct any system
in the body using
the very specific relationship
that you have to your body
and paying attention to that.
>>MINCOLLA: Remember
we first talked
about the idea of prevention.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MINCOLLA: We're
really not zoomed
in on this idea of prevention.
And we're not really maximizing
our potential for prevention.
>>LISA: Right
>>MINCOLLA: And
you think about it.
If we could teach
America or inspire
America, like Whole
Health does, to try
to tune into your body at
really sensitive levels
and to be able to preemptively
protect and defend yourself
before disease
happens, I mean you
could make a
tremendous difference,
take a big bite out of crime.
>>LISA: That's true.
What was the biggest
response that you
had after being on
the "Dr. Oz" show?
What was the popular
opinion of that?
>>MINCOLLA: Oh, people
really loved it.
I got flooded with
emails, and I think
a lot of folks-- the book
sales went up, of course.
>>LISA: Did they
like it because you
were restoring and
empowering people
in terms of their own health?
>>MINCOLLA: Yeah, I think
the most powerful message
we get back as a
feedback from the public
is that people love
the idea of two things:
number one, being taught
that energy is everywhere,
energy is everything.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MINCOLLA: People are
really ready for the message
that energy is where it's at.
They're finally ready for that.
And I think they're
aware of the fact,
acutely, that they've
been sort of minimized.
I always say,
imagine having lived
half a life for your whole life.
That's the proposition
we're dealing with.
>>LISA: That's what it
feels like, doesn't it?
>>MINCOLLA: Because in
1921, we gave Einstein
a Nobel Prize for teaching
us that energy and matter are
interconvertible
and transferable.
Then we turned around and lived
100 years of Newtonian life.
It makes no sense.
So either we take back the
Nobel Prize or we wake up.
>>LISA: Very well said.
Thank you so much.
Yes, energy is everything.
>>MINCOLLA: Energy
is everything.
>>LISA: I've learned so much.
So you can work with your
body in so many different ways
to bring your energy
up, to clear disease,
to get rid of anxiety, to find
out what your allergies are,
to cure the common cold.
It's all possible.
>>MINCOLLA: To tune in with
your higher consciousness
about who you are
and how you're doing.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
>>MINCOLLA: My pleasure.
Thank you so much.
>>LISA: Great information.
And if you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Dr. Mincolla, you
can go to GaiamTV.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]